 

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
Apr 2016 –   
Present   

TASNEEM NASRULLA 

Compliance Officer - Reliance Asset Management (S) Pte Ltd, Singapore 
Responsible for the Regulatory and Investment Compliance of a Capital Market Services licensed Fund Manager. 
-  Mandating and ensuring Regulatory Reporting & Compliance. Liaising with regulators and authorities on all 

compliance/regulatory matters in different jurisdictions. 
Preparing monthly Compliance Report to the Board of Directors & Risk Report to CRO of Parent Company. 
Keeping  the company abreast of regulatory developments with the Monetary Authority of Singapore(MAS), 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) & Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (SEBI). Periodic SEC,, SEBI, GABRIEL (FCA) and FATCA reporting 

- 
- 

-  Managing ongoing AML/CFT  monitoring 
- 

- 

- 

- 

- 

Reviewing of all Customer Due Diligence/ KYC documentations, onboarding and ongoing monitoring of clients 
& contract agreements 
Facilitating semi-annual internal  and external audits, addressing concerns highlighted & ensuring follow up 
with Audit Committee and Board of Directors 
Reviewing, enhancing and implementing new policies and processes to enhance compliance & ensure proper 
internal control, segregation of functions, mitigation of conflicts of interest 
Identifying  &  reporting  risks  to  the  Risk  Management  Committee.    Implementing  risk  approved  mitigation 
measures and updating the risk bank. 
Preparing board resolutions & coordinating with Company Secretary with respect to  periodic filings like MAS 
& ACRA 
Reviewing ongoing marketing materials and newsletters 
Successfully wrapped up MAS Audit upon joining the Company. 

- 
- 
-  Updated  and  implemented  all  company  manuals  (i.e  Compliance,  AML,  Risk  Management,  Investment,  IT 

Policy & Procedures, Employee Handbook)  as well as CDD Onboarding & Review Forms. 
Liaising with distributors of various Funds from reviewing distribution agreements to onboarding and review 
of all distributors and platforms. 

-  Overseeing  all  Audit  Committee,  Risk  Management  Committee  &  Board  of  Directors  Meetings  including 

- 

drafting of all minutes of the meetings. 

- 

- 

Compliance Manager (Reinsurance) – RKH Specialty Asia Pacific Pte Ltd, Singapore 
Responsible for overseeing the Corporate Compliance Program for the company 
-  Working in association with Group Compliance in London to ensure policies and procedures are implemented 
effectively within RKH. Adhering to FCA regulations in like with parent company in UK. Taking ownership of 
certain aspects of the firm’s policies and procedures that address RKH’s regulatory risks, including drafting and 
implementing new policies and procedures. 
Acting  as  the  liaison  officer  with  the  MAS  and  to  support  the  CEO  in  the  submission  of  all  MAS  returns, 
applications and notifications. 
Supporting  the  anti-money  laundering  /  sanctions/  financial  crime  function  as  stipulated  by  Singapore 
regulations  and  in  line  with  RKH’s  policies  and  procedures.  Working  closely  with  the  Operations  and 
Compliance Representatives (OCRs) from the respective business lines with regards to approval process for 
Security, Third Parties Producers 
Conduct monthly internal audit / file reviews on all RKH placements in Singapore & London. 
Providing assistance to the business on compliance/ regulatory matters and client due diligence (CDD) process. 
Responsible for continuous compliance training of RKH Singapore Staff 
Providing  compliance  advice  and  assistance  to  Howden  Korea  (Retail  Insurance)  with  respect  to  CDD  and 
sanctions. 

Compliance Manager – Global Financial Consultants Pte Ltd, Singapore 
Responsible for overseeing the Corporate Compliance Program for the company. 
- 
Represented the firm in communication and interaction with the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) 
-  Maintained all regulatory requirements for the Exempt Financial Advisory (EFA) license awarded by MAS 
- 

Created  the  new  organization  structure  for  the  company  in  adherence  with  the  Corporate  Governance 
Guidelines by Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) 

- 
- 
- 
- 

 VP – Compliance, LVP Premier Asset Management Pte Ltd, Singapore 
Responsible for overseeing the Corporate Compliance Program for the company. 
- 

Represented the firm in communication and interaction with the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) & 
external auditors. 

Dec 2013 –  
Mar 2016 

Aug 2013 -  
Oct 2013 

Jan 2012 –  
Feb 2013 

 

 

May 2010 –  
Dec 2011 

Sept 2009 –  
Apr 2010  

June 2007 –  
June 2009  

Nov 2005 –  
June 2007  

 

- 
- 

-  Maintained  all  regulatory  requirements  for  the  Exempt  Fund  Manager  (EFM)  &  Exempt  Financial  Advisory 

(EFA) licenses awarded by MAS, this includes designing the compliance manual for the business. 
Aligned processes & procedures to ensure compliance, for the transition to the Registered FMC Regime. 
Successfully set up an in-house open-ended fund from reviewing the Private Placement Memorandum (PPM) 
to creating processes for valuations, trading and receipt of client monies. 

Compliance Manager, Calypso Capital Pte Ltd, Singapore 
Responsible for overseeing not only the regulatory compliance but also the overall operation of the business. 
- 

Played  an  integral  role  in  setting  up  the  company,  with  specific  responsibility  for  licensing  (Exempt  Fund 
Manager & Exempt Financial Advisory)  
Successfully completed the MAS Audit with KPMG, the MAS appointed external auditor. 

- 
-  Designed & codified key policies – account opening & KYC documentation, compliance, HR & accounting 
- 
 Associate Vice President, IIFL Private Wealth, Singapore 
Responsible for Business Development with Wealth Management Institutions & Clients in South East Asia. 
-  Developed ties with various product team heads – Key emphasis being empanelment of IIFL’s Fund. 
- 

Successfully handled firm & product marketing with relationship managers & product teams at leading private 
banks in Switzerland & Dubai. 

Successfully managed the operational administration of the company 

 Relationship Manager (Consumer Banking), Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore  
Responsible for providing financial advice, maintenance & growth of existing customer base. 
- 

Structured product portfolios for new & existing clients (250 clients, SGD 70 million AUM), based on needs 
assessment 
Successfully managed client relationships, resulting in increased AUM for existing clients & acquisition of new 
clients. Consistently achieved or exceeded personal sales target of SGD 180K per quarter. 

Associate Banker, Citibank Non-Resident Indian (NRI) Business, Singapore  
Responsible for management of on-going client servicing & supporting RM’s heading up the Indonesian Segment.  
- 
Successfully  handled  the  flow  of  information  between  middle  &  back  offices,  and  clients,  management  & 
relationship managers, to enable timely decision making and risk management 
End-to-end interface for clients in the trades of investment products i.e. mutual funds, bonds and structured 
notes. In-charge of the order placement for Indonesian Team and maintained log of Investments/Revenues. 

- 

- 

           Examination in March 2017 
           Currently Studying 
 
          May 2014 
    
 
          June 2013  
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
EDUCATION 
Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialist  - CAMS  
Online FATCA Course - Association of Certified Financial Crime Specialists (ACFCS) 
Certificate in Reinsurance  - Singapore College of Insurance 
FICS Accredited - Specialist Diploma in Compliance 
International Compliance & Training Academy Pte Ltd, Singapore  
Module 1 – Merit Pass; Module 2 – Distinction Pass; Module 3 – Distinction Pass; Module 5 – Distinction Pass 
 
Certificate in Fund Administration  - Nanyang Polytechnic, Singapore 
Understanding The Financial Advisers Act (Cap 110)  - Singapore College of Insurance 
 
International Certificate in AML Awareness - International Compliance Association, Singapore  
 
Capital Markets & Financial Advisory Services (CFMAS) Modules – 9A   
 
Module 1; 5; 9; HI  
 
 
Bachelor of Science in Banking & Finance - University of London (External Programme), Singapore 
Graduated with Honors; Scored in Principles of Banking, Corporate Finance & Banking Operations & Risk Analysis 
Diploma in Accounting & Finance - Temasek Polytechnic, Singapore 
 
COMPETENCIES & SKILLS 
● 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Communication skills – particularly detailed report writing & the ability to assimilate and present complex information simple 
and accurately. Relationship Building with key stakeholders. 
Stakeholder relationship management and inter-personal skills 
Technical problem solving abilities 
Accuracy and attention to detail 

● 
● 
● 
●  Negotiation skills 

            Apr 2013  
           Mar 2013  
             Jan 2013  
            July 2012   
            July 2007 
        2000 - 2006  

        1997 - 2000  

 

