 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
CURRICULUM VITAE 
 
 
 
NAME:                         
 
E-MAIL: 
 
HP:  
 
GENDER: 
 
DATE OF BIRTH: 
 
ADDRESS: 
 
NATIONALITY: 
 
MARITAL STATUS: 
 
 
 
EDUCATION: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Married 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
QUALIFICATION: 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 
 
Gloria Cheng Ge Fang 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

gefang@singnet.com.sg 

 

65-94761969   
 
 
 
Female  
 
 
 
 
 
Aug. / 1974 
 
 
36 St.Patrick’s Road Tierra Vue #05-04 Singapore 424160 
 
Chinese / 20 years Singapore P.R  

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
MBA in Finance with Distinction 
The University of Nottingham, UK 
2004 – 2006 

 

 

 

 

Best Overall Performance and Best Dissertation Award 
 
Published Research Paper <Electronics: A case study of 
Economic Value Added in Target Costing> in Academic 
Journal <Management Accounting Research> by Elsevier 
Ltd in Sept 2012 

Bachelor of Economics (International Accounting)   
Shanghai International Studies University 
1992 - 1996 
 
Fellow member of Association of Chartered Certified 
Accountant (ACCA), UK 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

ACCA Worldwide Prize Winner (1993) 

Chartered Accountant, Singapore  
 
Certified Green Belt 

 

 

 

Awarded by University of Michigan College of 
Engineering 

 
 
WORKING EXPERIENCE: 
 

Company: 

 

Armstrong Asset management Pte. Ltd. 
From Aug 2017 to date  

 
Nature of the firm:  An independent asset manager specialized in clean energy  
sector  with  investment  into  clean  energy  infrastructure 
assets in South East Asia countries that leave a long term 
positive impact on society and the natural environment.  
 
Financial Controller (contract)  

Aug’17 to date  

 

 
Position Held:  
 
Job Description: 

 

 

Fund Finance, tax & Administration 

1.  Reporting to Managing Partner, the FC role is responsible 
for financial control and all accounting activities as well as 
tax reporting of the Master-Feeder Fund and its 10  SPVs 

2.  Review  quarterly  management  accounts  prepared  by  the 
Fund  Administrator  for  all  the  Fund  and  SPVs.    Prepare 
quarterly investor report to LPs and assist in calculations of 
returns  (Gross  and  Net  IRR  &  Multiples  for  Fund, 
Portfolio, etc) on monthly, quarterly and annual basis 

3.  Responsible 

investor  capital  calls,  distribution, 
investment  exit  repayment,  management  fee  calculation 
and investors questionnaires 

for 

4.  Responsible 

for 

the  annual  valuation  of  portfolio 

companies held by SPVs and the Fund 

5.  Managing  cash  flow  of  the  fund  and  its  SPVs,    maintain 
Master-Feeder  Fund  and  SPV  bank  accounts  to  ensure 
efficient  cash  management  and  proper  internal  control   
maintain the fund flow statement on regular basis.  

6.  Oversee the external audit process on year end and ensure 
accurate and timely delivery of audited financial statements 
7.  Responsible  for  annual  tax  return,  ECI  filing,  annual 
declaration for MAS S13X & S13R as well as FATCA and 
CRS  return  filing  for  the  Master-Feeder  Fund  and  SPVs, 
prepare semi-annual GST remission report of the Fund  

8.  Liaise with and maintain constructive working relationship 
with  fund  administrator,  tax  agents,  auditor,  banks,  legal 
counsels, company secretaries and etc  

9.  Perform  all  day-to-day  duties  linked  to  the  general 
administration  and strong support to the operation of the 
fund 

10. Assist in investment structure set up for new deals to ensure 
that  they  are  tax  and  operational  efficient.  Assist  in 
investment  exit  in  terms  of  Gross  /net  IRR  calculation, 
water fall analysis, deal cost tracking, SPV winding up and 
correspondence with MAS, ACRA etc.   

 
Manager Accounting, Tax & Reporting  
 
1.  Review  monthly  management  accounts  prepared  by  the 

Service Provider 

2.  Managing cash flow and act as the bank authorized signer 
3.  Coordinate  with  internal  &  external  auditors  to  ensure  all 
documentation  is  provided  in  a  timely  manner  and  that 
audited annual accounts are completed in time 

4.  Coordinate  with  tax  agent  to  ensure  proper  filing  of  tax 

returns and assist in ECI and PIC calculations 

5.  Responsible for annual MAS filing for Form 25B, FSI-FM 
return  Monitoring CMS license ensuring Fund’s AUM not 
exceeding the threshold 

Company: 

 

 

 

 

Henderson Global Investors (Singapore) Ltd 
From Dec’05 to July’15 

 
Nature of the firm:  Asia  Pacific  headquarter  of  UK  /  Australia  listed  Asset 
Management  Company  total  U$5  billion  AUM  in  Asia 
including SICAV & hedge funds, private equity funds, real 
estate  funds  and  approximately  US$120  billion  AUM 
worldwide.   
 
Head of Finance, Asia  
 
Finance and Admin Manager   

July’11 to July’15 
Dec’05 to July’11 

 
Position Held:  

 

Job Description: 

 

1.  Reporting  to  Managing  Director  of  Asia  Pacific    and 
dotted  line  to  Head  of  Group  Finance  in  London, 
overseeing  all  accounting  and  financial  /  management 
reporting  functions  in  Asia  pacific  including  Singapore, 
Hong Kong, China, Australia, Japan and Indian offices. 

2.  As  Asia  Senior  Management  team  (AMT)  member, 
attending  regular  AMT  and  board  meetings  to  report 
financial  performance  of  Asia  Pacific  region,  provide 
financial input to Asia strategy, evaluate organic and M&A 
opportunities from finance perspective and participate in all 
corporate development initiatives in the region.  

3.  Holding directorship in portfolio company in Henderson 
Private  Equity  Fund  HAPPII  (US$250m)  from  2012  to 
2015 , attending investment committee meetings, quarterly 
investors’  meetings,  fund  performance  reporting.  Review 
China  investment’s  return  and  risks,  discussion  of  exit 
opportunities with various parties.  

4.  Working  with  private  equity  team  and  direct  property 
(real  estate  )  team  in  private  equity  and  real  estate  fund 
structure  set  up,  providing  input  on    tax  incentive  and 
implications etc 

5.  Ensure  statutory  and  regulatory  obligations  are  met  in 
respect  of  preparation  and  filings  of  all  statutory  and 
regulatory  reports  in  Asia  pacific  region,  experienced  in 
liaisons with MAS Singapore, SFC HK, FSA Japan, ASIC 
Australia  and  AIC  China.  Experienced  in  preparing  and 
reviewing  regulatory  reports  including  but  not  limited  to 
the following: 

-Singapore  MAS  quarterly 
Expenditure reports  

forms  and 

Income  & 

- Singapore MAS annual financial return and AUM surveys 

- Singapore Statistical Board quarterly AUM surveys 

- Singapore ACRA financial statements filings 

- HongKong FRR returns 

- Australia annual financial returns 

- Japan quarterly FSA reports  

- China MOF / AIC monthly, quarterly and annual reports 

6. Supervising two direct reports (Senior FM & Accounting 
Manager)  in  Singapore  hub  plus  two  local  financial 
controllers in Japan and Australia to ensure timely, accurate 
and  presentable  financial  reports  and  deliverables  for  all 
Asia Pacific entities.   

7.  Review  and  present  management  reports  and  monthly 
financial  package  for  Asia  pacific  region  to  AMT  and 
London headquarter on monthly basis.  

8. In charge of consolidated Strategic Plan and consolidated 
annual budget / forecast preparation for Asia Pacific region.   

9.  Liaison  with  UK  group  finance  team  /  management 
information  team  /  tax  team  in  respect  of  inter-company 
issues, transfer pricing and group reporting requirements.  

10. Liaison with external auditors in the region on statutory 
audit  and  tax  consultants  on  corporate  tax  /  indirect  tax 
calculation and filings.   

11.Review  and  streamline  accounting  practice  and 
accounting  policies  in  Asia  Pacific  to  ensure  both  group 
and local requirements are met 

Siemens Medical Instrument Pte Ltd 
From Jan’05 to Dec’05  

 
Nature of the firm:  German  Manufacturing  company  listed  in  NYSE  with 
from 

turnover  of  S$240million  contributed 

annual 
Singapore medical division. 

 

 

Senior Accountant 

1.  Provide  KPI  analysis  for  factory  performance  control 
and profit and loss analysis for ESPRIT reporting, mainly 

 
v  Delivery time& Delinquent backlog 
v  Manufacturing cycle time 
v  Rolled throughput yield 
v  Inventory turnover 
v  EBIT  and  Operating  Cash  Flow  analysis  v.s 

prior period and budget 

2. In Charge of US Sarbanes-Oxley Act compliance work 
and  other 
to 
Siemens internal audit requirement.  

internal  control  assessments  according 

•  Documentation of SOX control activities ( Siemens 

Annex 2 and Annex 3 preparation) 

•  Lead  testing  team  of  12  members  to  conduct 

•  Evaluation  of  deficiencies  and  implementation  of  

internal testing 

remediation actions 

 

 

 

Company: 

 

 
Position Held:  

Job Description: 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

3.  Monitor  and 
refine  web-based  Transfer  Pricing 
Management System (TPMS) and provide monthly pricing 
analysis by major products and customers  
 
4.  Co-ordinate  FY05/06  sales  budget  and  preparation  of 
master budget according to Siemens budget premise.  

Company: 

 

ITT Industries (Singapore) Pte Ltd. 
(A Subsidiary of ITT Industries Inc) 
From Dec’99 to Dec’04 

 
Nature of the firm:  Manufacturing  and  Regional  Headquarter  of  Electronics 
Components  Division  of  ITT  Industries  Inc,  a  US  Multi-
national Company with $6 billion annual turnover 
 
 
Assistant Finance Manager  
Senior Financial Analyst  
 
Financial Reporting Analyst    

Jan’04 to Dec’04 
July’01 to Dec’03 
Dec’99 to July’01 

  
Position Held:  

 

 

 

 

 
 
Job Description: 

1.  In  charge  of  the  group  financial  reporting  and  analysis 
function  with  overall  responsibility 
in  consolidation, 
financial  result  analysis  and  preparation  of  monthly 
financial reporting package for Asia Pacific region.  

2.  Review  and  consolidation  of  Asia  Pacific  group 
management accounts (altogether 9 entities) according 
to  US  GAAP  &  review  of  China  and  HongKong 
subsidiaries’ financial accounts. 

3.  Conduct  monthly  business 

risk  and  opportunity 
analysis,  co-ordination  of  yearly  strategic  plan, 
operating plan and budget for the whole group. 

4.   Review  and  provide  guidance  on  accounting,  costing 
and internal control functions in regional units, assisting 
financial controller in preparation of monthly Controller 
Letter . 

5.  Responsible 

for  US  Sarbane-Oxley  Act 

(SOX)  
compliance in Singapore HQ, leading a cross-function 
SOX  team    to  improve  internal  control  process  in 
revenue,  purchase,  inventory,  fixed  assets,  payroll 
cycles.  Perform  SOX  audit  with  ITT  internal  auditor 
PwC in China companies 

6.  Supervision 3 staff in the team. 

Morison International  
Certified Public Accountants, Singapore 
From Dec’97 - Nov'99 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

Company: 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
 

 

 

 

 
Nature of the firm:  Accounting and auditing firm 

 

 

 

Job Description: 

Audit junior to Senior  

1)  Independent  local  and  overseas  audit  on  full  set  of 
accounts 
including  Manufacturing,  Construction, 
Trading, Investment holding, Shipping, Jewelry, Travel 
agency and Logistic companies. 

 
2)  Special  audit  on  client's  internal  control  system,  GST 
compliance and preparation of walkthrough flowcharts 
& management letters for control improvement. 

3)  Consolidation  of  financial  accounts  and  review  of 

client's financial management reports. 

 

4)  Liaison  with  clients  on  statutory  audit  and  internal 

control issues. 

5)  Due diligence work for overseas construction company 

to apply syndicated loan from USA 

 
6)  Supervising  a  team  of  audit  assistants  and  reviewing 

their audit works 

 
 

 
 
 

 
Company: 
 
 
Nature of the firm:  Joint venture between Korean MNC and Shanghai listed 
Co. in international trading business with annual turnover 
of US$0.5 billion 

Shanghai Lansheng - Daewoo Co., Ltd 
Aug'96 - Nov'97 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 
Job Description: 

Financial Accountant  
 
In  charge  of  Accounts  receivable  function  and  debtors' 
aging analysis 

Financial analysis on management reports and cash flow 
forecasting  

 
 
COMPUTER SKILLS: 

 

 
•  Proficient in Ms Office software    
 

•  Working Knowledge of Hyperion,  MAPICS (ERP) system, 

CODA system. 

•  knowledge of SAP GL, AP module.  

 
 
HOBBIES: 
 
LANGUAGE SKILLS:  Fluent in English, Mandarin (mother tongue) 
 

 

 

 

Swimming, jogging,  martial art (Taiji) Reading and Writing  

 

  
      

 

 
  
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

