Choo Gui Yi, Ivy	

 

Address: 38 Lorong N Telok Kurau #04-04 S(425163) 
DOB: 12 September 1986 
Gender: Female 
Citizenship: Singaporean 
Race: Chinese 
Marital Status: Married 
Mobile: +65 97954868 
Email: ivycgy@yahoo.com.sg   
 
 

   

 

 

 

Work History & Responsibilities 

1.  Company: Lion Global Investors Limited 
•  Duration: October 2012 to Present 
•  Position: Assistant Manager, Investment Compliance 
•  Job description: 

-  Monitor investment activities and implement controls to ensure company’s 

policies and guidelines are adhered to. 

-  Ensure compliance with investment guidelines, setting up and maintain rules in 

Bloomberg AIM.  

-  Provide advisory on investment/regulatory guidelines and rule coding with regard 

- 

to new and existing mandates.   
Investigate trade breaches and follow-up with fund managers to ensure 
rectification within approved timeline.  

-  Carry out daily trade approval and reporting.  
-  Prepare scheduled reports according to the relevant investment guidelines.  
-  Attend to compliance enquiries from investment team.  
-  Provide investment compliance training to the investment team.  
-  Carry out projects on enhancement of compliance processes on ad-hoc basis. 

 

2.  Company: Conocophillips Asia Ventures Pte Ltd 
•  Duration: March 2012 to October 2012 
•  Position Held: Compliance Analyst (Contract) 
•  Job description: 

-  Ensure consistent execution of policies and procedures as part of global 

Compliance team. 

-  Assist with the group business continuity planning and testing 
-  Trade floor presence to monitor trading activities against various policies. 
-  Carry out investigations upon receipt of alerts for trade violations from the 

transaction monitoring team.  

-  Support daily process which enables traders to confirm the accuracy of their deals. 

Page 1 of 3 

 

 

Choo Gui Yi, Ivy	

-  Support the counterparty approval process by conducting appropriate due 

diligence on potential new trading counterparties. 

-  Provide advisory and compliance support to the trading floor.  

3.  Company: Bank of China 
•  Duration: April 2011 to March 2012 
•  Position Held: Compliance Officer (Retail Banking) 
•  Job description: 

-  Assist in performing compliance monitoring and reviews.  
-  Provide advisory for KYC issues and compliance support to business units. 
-  Conduct inspection; generate report on findings and recommendations.  
-  Prepare compliance checklist and assist in training on AML issues.  
-  Review and revise policies, assure that the functions’ policies and standards 

relating to regulatory compliance are effectively implemented.  

-  Dissemination of information relating any change in regulation, AML/CFT update 

and any other information from Legal & Compliance Department to business 
units. 
 

4.  Company: CIMB Bank Berhad 
•  Duration: January 2010 to December 2010 
•  Position Last Held: Account Services Executive 
•  Job description: 

-  Assess customer profile and documents to ensure compliance of bank policy and 

MAS626 before approval of account opening and reports.  

-  Authorise updates of customer details, ensure accuracy and verification of 

customers’ identity. 

maintenance.  

-  Supervise officers on daily operations; consistently ensure accuracy on account 

-  Liaise with Risk Management for project on operational risks, review current 

work processes and propose risks controls.  

-  Liaise with project management team on evaluation of officers’ productivity and 

daily volume of work load.  

-  Train new staff on Individual and Corporate account openings.  

Page 2 of 3 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Choo Gui Yi, Ivy	

 
Education Summary 

•  Aug 2006 - Jun 2009 – University of London (SIM), Singapore 

BSC of Science (Business), 2nd Class upper honours 
 

 
•  Jan 2003 - Dec 2004 – Serangoon Junior College (SRJC) 

•  Jan 1999 - Dec 2002 – Tampines Secondary (TPSS) 

GCE ‘A’ level 3 credits 
 

GCE ‘O’ level 7 credits 
 
 

Professional courses attended 

•  Year 2014: Certificate in Fund Administration 
•  Year 2012: Bloomberg AIM 

 
Skills 

•  English and Chinese (Written and Spoken) 
•  MS Office, Excel and Powerpoint 
•  Bloomberg (AIM) 

 

Personality 

•  Eager to learn and seek self-improvement 
•  Proactive and team player 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

Page 3 of 3 

