Kyle Parochetti

1100 W Montrose Ave, Chicago, IL, 60613 

(563) 650-6989 
kdvp13@gmail.com

WORK EXPERIENCE 

RedRidge Diligence Services - Chicago, IL
Analyst  

Mar 2017 – Present

Lead full-cycle collateral audit engagements for client lending institutions’ credit facilities of up to $500 
million involving various debt structures (term loan, revolving loan, cash dominion, full dominion).  
Perform audit procedures around key balance sheet items (Inventory, Accounts Receivable, etc.) and 
develop standard pro forma financial statements from client records. 
Research, develop, and present company-wide trainings on acquisition transactions and quality of earnings 
reporting.
Evaluate and revise peer reports prior to submission to clients as part of internal quality control protocols. 

Jr. Analyst  

Team member on financial due diligence engagements for buy-side and sell-side transactions ranging from 
$10 million to $100 million.
Led weekly meetings with client executive management to discuss engagement progress, key performance 
indicators and deal issues. 

KPMG LLP - Des Moines, IA
Associate, Business Tax Services  

Aug 2015 – Feb 2017 

Prepared tax returns and supported tax planning initiatives for Fortune 500 insurance and banking clients.
Identified potential tax exposures in M&A transactions and advised clients on most efficient deal structures 
to mitigate tax risk. 
Key contributor to financial audit teams as a specialist on ASC 740 topics such as tax allocations for 
continuing operations, other comprehensive income, and shareholder equity. 
Analyzed the sufficiency of statutory reserves for insurance companies to ensure compliance with state 
statutory accounting principles.

John Deere - Waterloo, IA 
Accounting Intern  

Sep 2012 – Dec 2014

Worked an average of 30 hours a week while a full time student at University of Northern Iowa, and full 
time during summer months. 
Rotated through internal audit, cost accounting, project management, and R&D costing roles. 
Spearheaded a claims analysis which led to $400k of funding for an automated process improvement 
initiative to reduce warranty claims.  

EDUCATION 

UNIVERSITY OF NORTHERN IOWA  
B.A. Accountancy (May 2015) 
•
•

President, Treasurer and Philanthropy chair of Kappa Sigma Fraternity
Raised over $5k for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, and over $2k for the Military Heroes 
Campaign as Philanthropy chair of Kappa Sigma
Semester long study abroad program at the Universidad de Jaén in Jaén, Spain

•
• Member of the Accounting Club, National Society of Collegiate Scholars, UNI Men’s soccer club

Cedar Falls, IA

CREDENTIALS AND LICENSES

Certified Public Accountant (Iowa, Active License # O13806) 
Basic verbal and written Spanish language skills  

