Lauren Ehrler 

664 33rd Street DSM IA 
563-495-0357  

lmehrler@gmail.com  

 
EDUCATION 
Drake University – Des Moines, IA – May 2013 – Bachelor of Arts: Journalism & Mass Communication   
Major: Broadcast News | Minor: Sociology | Concentration: Marketing & Management | GPA: 4.0 
 
Humboldt University – Berlin, Germany – January to May 2011 – Metropolitan Studies program  
 
EXPERIENCE  
The Des Moines Register – Des Moines, Iowa 
Producer | January 2015 – Present  

  Serve as multi-platform specialist, guiding digital, SEO and social media strategy for team 
  Edit and publish 10+ news articles per day to DesMoinesRegister.com and affiliated sites  
  Write breaking news, feature and trending news stories for print and online products 
  Create 30+ social media posts per day for Facebook, Twitter and Instagram 
  Use metrics-based decision making to manage website and social platforms 

 
Power Life — Des Moines, Iowa 
Yoga instructor | June 2017 – Present  

  Provide power yoga instruction for levels 1, 1.5 and 2 with a focus on breath and alignment  
  Build sequences that help students reach their highest potential in a safe environment 
  Completed RYT 200-hour teacher training in April 2017 through Power Life 

 
CNN – Washington, D.C. 
News Assistant | January 2014 – December 2014 

  Provided production and editorial support for D.C. bureau programming, including coordinating live 

shots, building graphics, coordinating guests, operating teleprompter and conducting research  

  Contributed to CNN social media coverage for special events, crafted 100+ tweets for @CNNPolitics 

 
Des Moines Wine Festival Foundation – Des Moines, Iowa 
Winefest event assistant | January 2013 – June 2013  

  Crafted recruitment materials for vendors and wrote promotional copy for upcoming events 
  Communicated directly with vendors and volunteers via email newsletters system 

 
PROFESSIONAL SKILLS 

  Quick learner with proven ability to perform multiple tasks efficiently and effectively 
  Organized, reliable and clear communicator to ensure tasks are achieved and goals are met 
  Proficient in AP Style, Microsoft Office, social media platforms and content management systems 

 

Lauren Ehrler 

664 33rd Street DSM IA 
563-495-0357  

lmehrler@gmail.com  

 

 

 
April 18, 2018 
 

 
Jami Haberl, Executive Director 
Iowa Healthiest State Initiative  
301 Grand Avenue 
Des Moines, IA 50309 
 
 
Dear Ms. Haberl: 
 
The role of Content Marketing Coordinator merges two of my personal and professional passions: content and 
wellness. As a journalist, content creation has always been at the core of what I do — whether it is a 140 (or 
280) character tweet, an engaging video script or a 500-word blog post. I have experience crafting content for 
websites, social media, TV and more. My experience as a yoga instructor and person who maintains a healthy 
lifestyle provides me with the necessary voice for the organization. It would be my goal to spread awareness 
of the program’s goals and increase Iowans’ engagement with the Healthiest State Initiative. 
 
As a producer at the Des Moines Register, I handle all facets of content creation and distribution: 

  Writing content — including trending topics, local news stories, social media posts 
  Creating social media strategy — determining when is the best time to post and on what channels 
  SEO — monitoring keywords, A/B testing, manipulating fields within content management system  
  Executing distribution — publishing to website, social media channels and email newsletters 
  Measuring performance — using metrics to determine what worked to influence future strategies 

 
In addition, after noticing a lack of coordination within the newsroom, I revised a digital distribution document 
to help bridge the gap between when content is created and how it is distributed. I then helped train reporters 
and editors on best social media strategies and led the execution of their distribution plans. Our newsroom 
also has a social content calendar which I help manage on a day-to-day basis. I am confident I would be able to 
bring the same organizational skills and workflow prowess to the Healthiest State Initiative. 
 
Please do not hesitate to reach out to me if you have any questions. I look forward to discussing the position 
with you further.  
 
Best, 
 
Lauren Ehrler 

