 

ROHINI PRAKASH, CA 

SINGAPORE |+ 65 98624747 |rohiniprakash1@gmail.com 

INVESTOR RELATIONS, FUND STRUCTURING, CONTROLLERSHIP & 

COMPLIANCE  

Highly result driven detail oriented  professional with experience in Fund management, structuring, investor 
relations, regulatory compliance, fund raising, deal structuring, valuations & controllership.

 

Fu nd  C on t r ol l e r  

Accounting/ reporting/audits 

Cross border taxation 

Compliance/ internal Controls 
Fund management/ treasury 

Structures –LP/LLC 

KEY SKILLS

 Fin a nc i al  A n al y si s  

Fund performance metrics 
     Valuations review 
 

Fund management/ treasury  

Budgeting & cost control                                   

 

EXPERIENCE  

Fu nd   M an a ge me n t  
Fund tax structuring 

Fund legal documentation 

Investor meetings 

Due diligence 

 

 

XANDER GROUP , SINGAPORE                                                                       Nov 2010 till dat e   

Emerging market focussed Institutional investment firm backed by the Rothschild Investment Trust and Getty 
Family, with $2BN AUM primarily invested in real estate, infrastructure, hospitality and retail sectors. 

VICE PRESIDENT   

Structured  funds  &  real  estate  investments,  assisted  in  Fund  raising,  managed  Fund’s  investor  reporting, 
regulatory compliance, valuation, performance assessment, treasury, accounting and taxation.   
 
  Structured cross border Funds, worked with consultants on preparation and review of Fund structures and 

documentation/ setting up of entities/ obtaining tax exemptions (13X/13R). 

  Structure/  manage  investment  into  underlying  investee  companies  (equity/  debt).    Review  valuations/ 

assess performance (member of the Valuation Committee across Funds).  

  Built and managing a team of five personnel for running the operations of 7 Funds with a corpus of `USD 2 
treasury,  compliance, 

billion 
investments/ divestments etc.).  Developed processes and internal controls for financial reporting.  

investor  communication/  queries, 

(including  accounting, 

taxation, 

  Assisted  in  preparation  of  pitches/  due  diligence  documents/  track  record  for  fund  raising.  Attended 

discussions/ meetings with prospective investors.  

  Screened, identified and transitioned work to third party vendor for automating accounting and reporting 

process.  Currently implementing an investor portal completely integrated with the accounting system 

Initial  one  year  period  worked  in  Asset  management  –  responsible  for  reviewing  performance/  making 
improvements/ tracking of underlying real estate investments  

 

 

COPAL  AMBA, DELHI                                                                                 Jan  2010 – Oct2010 

Copal  Amba  is  a  leading  financial  research  and  analytics  company  owned  by  Moody’s.    It’s  clients  include 
leading bulge bracket financial institutions, Fortune 100 corporations, investment banks and asset managers.  

HEAD RISK &  COMP LI ANCE  

Set up and managed the risk framework, lead customer audits, assisted in new customer proposals to leading 
banks.   
 
  Reviewed, developed, and strengthened the risk framework of the Company across several locations.  

rohiniprakash1@gmail.com| +6598624747| PAGE 1 

  Set up risk framework, documented policies and trained staff at new office premises in Beijing to ensure 
compliance  with  service  level  agreements.    Successful  in  obtaining  client  approval  for  commencing 
operations at the site.   

  Successfully prepared for and front-ended several client audits of leading banks/ corporations.   
  Worked  on  relationship  building  with  existing/  potential  customers.    Attended  relationship  building 

meeting with the largest client along with co-founder of Copal. 

  Assisted in preparing pitches and also presented the compliance framework to prospective clients.   Built 

and managed the four member Compliance team. Responsible for appraisals/ development of team. 

  Conducted  operational  reviews  to  identify  cost  inefficiencies.    Successful  in  reducing/controlling  several 

operating costs.  

  Built and managed the four member Compliance team. Responsible for appraisals/ development of team. 

 

KPMG, DELHI & LOND ON                                                                         Jul  2002 –  Oct 2009  

 

ASSISTANT MANAGE R, ASSURAN CE & ADV ISORY DIVISION  

 
  Effectively  managed  financial  statement  /  internal  control/  SOX  audits  for  several  large  and  mid-sized 
corporations  (BBC,  Panasonic,  Actis,  Apax,  Dentsu,  Canon,  Timex,  Jubilant,    Group  4,  CSC,  Cadence, 
Allied, Diageo) 

 

 

  Managed/ supervised simultaneous projects including formulation of budget, assigning staff, monitoring 
progress,  managing  the  teams,  presenting  and  resolving  significant  issues,  debrief  meeting  with  senior 
management and invoicing.  
Seconded to the London Private Equity Assurance division.  Conducted the audit of several Private Equity 
Firms (Apax, Morgan Grenfell).   
Successfully completed a complex (merger/ demerger) multi-location accounting advisory assignment for 
GE with an extremely demanding deadline.   
Instrumental  in  identifying  gaps  and  inefficiencies  in  the  finance  function  of  HCL  which  helped  reduce 
reporting timelines significantly.   Presented the process maps indicating gaps and suggested measures to 
the CFO and Vice-Presidents heading the various Finance divisions. 
Seconded  to  the  Department  of  Professional  Practice  and  worked  on  queries  received  from  teams  across 
KPMG locations in India on application of accounting standards and corporate laws.   

 

 

  Conducted  trainings  on  the  KPMG  audit  methodology/  accounting  standards  for  Executives  and  Staff 

Accountants. 

 

EDUCATION & QUALIFICATIONS  

 

 

 

Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 
Associate Member – Cleared final examination in 1st attempt 
 
Sriram College of Commerce, University of Delhi   
Bachelors of Commerce (Honors) - First Division 
 
 
D.P.S.   R.K. Puram 
Commerce –scored 90% 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

      
 

      
 

    New Delhi, India 
 

    Nov 2006 

   
 

 
 

   
 

 
 

    New Delhi, India 
 

    May 2002 

     New Delhi, India 
 
  March 1999 

 

OTHER SKILLS & INTERESTS  

Reading 

Travel 

Gardening 

rohiniprakash1@gmail.com| +6598624747| PAGE 2 

