2015 - 2019 

2014 – 2015 

2010 – 2014 

Summer 2011  

2019-2020 
 

2014-2015 

Sarah Elizabeth Birkholz 
140 Benton Ave, Wayzata, MN, 55391 

MD, MBA, Lt, USN, MC 

Personal phone: 952-334-6536 ∙ Work phone: 619-971-6201 

Personal email: sarahbirkholz@gmail.com ∙ Work email: sarah.e.birkholz2.mil@mail.mil 

EDUCATION 

Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha, NE 
Doctor of Medicine 
 
University of Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ  
Master’s of Business Administration 
 
Drake University, Des  Moines, IA 
Bachelor of Arts  
Biochemistry, Cell and Molecular Biology, magna cum laude   
 
Hennepin Technical College, Bloomington, MN  
Emergency Medical Technician-Basic  

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 

  Obstetrics and Gynecology Intern 
  Naval Medical Center San Diego 
  San Diego, CA 

•  Rotates through different obstetrics and gynecology specialties including labor and delivery, general 
gynecology, gynecology oncology, reproductive endocrinology and infertility, and urogynecology.  

•  Works with staff attendings, residents, nurses and corpsman to provide the best possible care for patients  

Medical Scribe 
Emergency Physician Professional Association  
Minnetonka, MN 
•  Worked alongside physicians, physician assistants and nurse practitioners to document patient history, 

review of systems, physical exam, findings and plan using an electronic medical record.  
Increased emergency department efficiency by allowing for patient focused physician interactions. 

• 
•  Trained new medical scribes to ensure proper techniques and skills were acquired 
 

     Personal Care Assistant 

Summer 2014 

Minnetonka, MN 
•  Cared for a teenage girl with Down Syndrome.   
•  Worked on social skills and improving ability to perform activities of daily life independently.    

Supported Community Living Provider 
Des Moines, IA 
•  Worked with an autistic boy to develop skills of daily living.  
• 

Implemented his Individual Education Plan to help him meet specific goals socially, functionally and 
academically.    

2013-2014 

Emergency Medical Technician 
ABM Security- Titan Tires  
Des Moines, IA 
•  Maintained a safe and secure environment in an industrial setting.   
•  Utilized emergency medical training to assess and ensure the health of employees. 

2012-2013 

      

 

 

 

Emergency Medical Technician 
Camp Wah-Nee 
Torrington, CT 
•  Emergency Medical Technician 
•  Assisted three nurses and four rotating physicians to maintain the camp health center.   
•  Dispensed medications under the supervision of nurses to campers throughout the day.   

Summer 2012 

 

PRESENTATIONS/ PUBLICATIONS 

      Poster Presentations   

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

     

Birkholz, S., Bell, E., & Valiquette, A. (2018, February). Interdisciplinary work between public relations and 
medicine to improve clinic success. Poster presented at Society of Student Run Free Clinics Annual 
Conference, Omaha, NE.  
 
Birkholz, S., Rometti, M., Gildemaster, Y., Davis, A., Barlett., Tangen, B., Hassan., White, A., Nemeth., 
Kinzler, C., Mechels, K., Fennely, N., Freymark, R., Lewis, S., White, S., Wall, P., Buising, C. (2014, April). 
Tourniquets pressures: Strap width and tensioning system widths. Poster presented at the Drake University 
Conference on Undergraduate Research in the Sciences, Des Moines, IA. 
 
Brune, M., Heffernen, E., Gagich, L., Kaese, J., Matsunaga, J., Stille, E., Terry, L., Birkholz, S., Gildemaster, 
Y., Rometti, M., Shuda, L., Wall, P., Buising, C. (2013, April). Pre and post blood donation comparisons of 
upper body position effects on stroke volume. Poster presented at the Drake University Conference on 
Undergraduate Research in the Sciences, Des Moines, IA.  
 
Duevel, D., Pokorny, J., Ahle, J., Becker, A., Buschling, J., Davis, T., Reed, L., Sautter, R., Brune, M., 
Heffernen, E., Koehler, A., Morris, S., Gagich, L., Perrington, M., Kaese, J., Matsunaga, J., Stille, E., Terry, L., 
Birkholz, S., Gildemaster, Y., Patel, T., Rometti, M., Shuda, L., Thorson, M., Walburg, J., Wall, P., Buising, C. 
(2011, April). Tourniquets and occlusion: The pressure of design. Poster presented at the Drake University 
Conference on Undergraduate Research in the Sciences, Des Moines, IA.  

 

Oral Presentation 
Birkholz, S., Buising, CM., McCrickerd, J. (2014, May). A sociological look at tourniquet use throughout 
history. Oral presentation at Drake University Honor Senior Thesis Conference, Des Moines, IA.  

 

 

Publications 
Birkholz, S., Patil, AA., Chamczuk, A. Treatment of postoperative recurrent cerebrospinal fluid leak with 
pseudomeningocele formation using temporary epidural drain- case reports. Interdisciplinary Neurosurgery.  
16: 25-28. June 2019. 
 
Wall, PL., Weasel, J., Rometti, M., Birkholz, S., Gildemaster, Y., Grulke, L., Sahr, S., Buising, CM. Pressures 
under 3.8cm, 5.1 cm, and side-by-side 3.8 cm wide tourniquets. Journal of Special Operations Medicine. 16 (2), 
Summer 2016. 

Wall, PL., Couglin, O., Rometti, M., Birkholz, S., Gildemaster, Y., Grulke, L., Sahr, S., Buising, CM. 
Tourniquet pressures: Strap width and tensioning system widths. Journal of Special Operations Medicine. 
14(4): 19-29, Winter 2014. 

Papers 
Birkholz, S., Harper-Harrison, G. Racial and ethnic disparities in maternal morbidity and mortality. Fall 2018. 
 

RESEARCH ACTIVITIES 
 
     Tourniquet Trauma Research 
      Drake University Charisse Buising, Ph.D. 

2011-2012, 2013-2014 

Investigated the effectiveness of tourniquets regarding width and tourniquet type 

• 
•  Worked with live subjects requiring informed consent to perform our study 
•  Organized data collection, analyzed data and paper writing. 

 
     Stroke Volume Trauma Research 
     Drake University Charisse Buising, Ph.D. 

2012 - 2013  

Investigated effectiveness of changes in body position post blood loss on stroke volume variation 

• 
•  Conducted study on live subjects pre and post blood donation in order to stimulate loss of blood volume.  
•  Performed data input, executed calculations and analyzed research outcomes for data purposes 

 
HONORS AND AWARDS 
 
     Medical Dean’s MAGIS Scholarship  
       School of Medicine 

Creighton University, Omaha, NE 

       
     University Honors 
      College of Arts and Sciences 
      Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
 

Mortar Board 

      College of Arts and Sciences 
      Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
 

Phi Beta Kappa 

 

      College of Arts and Sciences 
      Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
 
    President’s List 
      College of Arts and Sciences 
      Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
 
    Beta Beta Beta Biologic Honor Society 
      College of Arts and Sciences 
      Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
 

 

      College of Arts and Sciences 
      Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
 
    Dean’s List 
      College of Arts and Sciences 
      Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
 
LEADERSHIP ACTIVITIES 

     Magis Clinic Director 
     Creighton University, Omaha, NE 

Alpha Mu Gamma Foreign Language Honor Society 

2018 - 2019 

2014 

2014 

2014 

        Spring 2012, Fall 2012, Spring 2013, Fall 2013, Spring 2014 

2012 - 2014 

2012 -2014 

Fall 2010, Spring 2011, Fall 2011 

2017 – 2019 

•  Clinic works in collaboration with students, physicians, pharmacists, and social workers in the community 

to provide medical service to underserved individuals 

•  Oversee general activities of over 25 different clinic officers.   
•  Manage business activities of the clinic, group meetings, and works with administration to run and improve 

functioning of the clinic 

 

Magis Clinic Manager  

2015 – 2019 

Creighton University, Omaha, NE 
•  Organize medical and pharmacy students volunteer experience at the clinic 
•  Volunteer at clinic 1 time a month to oversee students and correspond with practitioners 
•  Ensure clinic activities run smoothly and provide the best possible patient care. 

 
Military Medicine Student Association President 

     Creighton University, Omaha, NE 

•  Establish and advertise events regarding medicine in the military setting 
•  Aid in connecting students of different classes to generate a network of mentors involved in military 

medicine. 

2017 – 2018 

Magis Clinic Fundraising Coordinator 
Creighton University, Omaha, NE 
•  Organized annual events, the Magis Wine Tasting in the spring and Magis Golf Outing in the fall.  
•  Coordinated activities with necessary personal including venue staff, Alumni relations and clinic mentors.  
•  Raised donations that aid in providing medical care to the underserved in the Omaha area.  

2015 - 2017   

 
      Magis Clinic Public Relations Committee Chair 

Creighton University, Omaha, NE 
•  Collaborated with an undergraduate Public Relations capstone class to develop multiple PR plans to 

• 

improve our relationship with our different publics.  
Implemented aspects of different plans developed. 
 

      Partners Against Cancer Inpatient Scheduling Manager   
     Creighton University, Omaha, NE 

•  Worked with an oncologist to coordinated opportunities for medical students to match with cancer patients.   
•  Mentored students to provide physical and emotional support to patients diagnosed with cancer, helping 

them to act as advocates and companions.  

 
      Vice President of Recruitment 
      Drake University Panhellenic Council, Drake University, Des Moines, IA 

•  Led and coordinated the Fall Recruitment activities of Drake University Greek Life.   
•  Worked with a team of four individuals, as well as the Vice President Recruitment of Interfraternity 

Council, to plan and execute a successful Recruitment process.   

•  Communicated with the Chapter Advisors and Vice Presidents of Recruitment for each sorority to ensure 

clear communication between all members.  

      Co-President 
      Alpha Mu Gamma Foreign Language Honor Society, Drake University, Des Moines, IA 

•  Worked with an executive board of seven members.   
•  Coordinated activities for an organization of around 25 members.   
•  Communicated with Advisor to ensure clear communication.   
•  Helped to promote the use of foreign language and culture.  

Vice Present Public Relations 

      Delta Gamma Fraternity, Drake University, Des Moines, IA 

•  Ensured organization preserved respectable relations with fellow Greek organizations, alumnae, Drake 

University, and members’ parents 

•  Produced and published a newsletter for parents and alumnae each semester. 
•  Wrote chapter updates published in the Delta Gamma national magazine 

Service Committee Chair 
Alpha Phi Omega Service Fraternity, Drake University, Des Moines, IA 

2011 – 2012 

2015 – 2017 

2015 – 2017  

2012 - 2013 

2012 – 2013 

2011 -2013 

 

 

•  Volunteer service fraternity with a focus on leadership, friendship and service.   
•  Worked with the Vice President Service to organize and plan volunteer opportunities for over 200 

members.   

•  Facilitated committee meetings.   
•  Personally volunteered at least 15 hours per semester in order to give back to the community. 

Student Senate First Year Interest Committee 
Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
•  Worked in collaboration with 10 other individuals to meet the needs of First Year students at Drake 

2010 – 2011 

University, including activities specifically for First Year students, such as a dodge ball tournament and a 
spring alcohol awareness week.   

•  The committee worked jointly with the Student Senate. 

ACADEMIC SERVICE 
      
     Creighton University School of Medicine Peer Mentor 

2017 – 2019 

2017 – 2019 

Creighton University, Omaha, NE 
•  Lead medical student small group enrichment activities 
•  Participate in physician/student panel events to discuss topics such as physician leadership and teamwork 

 
      Vital Signs Peer Mentor 

Creighton University, Omaha, NE 
•  A mentoring program to provide relationships and support for medical students of all levels 
•  Meet in small group setting to provide support and give advice to younger medical students 
•  Work with alumni mentor to put together group events. 
 
AMWA Mentor 
Creighton University, Omaha, NE 
•  Mentoring program between undergraduate premedical students and current medical students. 
•  Meet with undergraduate students to offer advice and support regarding medical school and applications. 
•  Work with alumni mentor to put together group events. 

2017 – 2019 

 
      Human Anatomy and Physiology Laboratory Teaching Assistant 

Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
•  Assisted the professor in facilitating laboratory activities. 
•  Guided students in dissections and educating students about anatomy and physiologic elements of the body. 

 
      Resident Assistant, Drake University 

2013 – 2014 

2011 – 2012 

Drake University, Des Moines, IA 
•  Worked with 13 other individuals to provide a safe residence for over 400 students.   
•  Planned and executed programs based upon campus safety, wellness, and community building.  
•  Facilitated community-building and acted as an administrator by monitoring the halls and maintaining a 

safe living environment. 

•  Met with students having difficulties with class material to better understand. 

 
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE 

 
Institute for Latin American Concern Women’s Health Clinic 
•  Worked with two attendings, one resident, a pelvic floor physical therapist, three PA students, two nurses 

February 2019 

•  Worked in a rural, underdeveloped and under-resourced to provide medical care to women in the 

and five medical students. 

Dominican Republic. 

2015 – 2017 

2015 – 2016 

•  Mission to integrate health, spirituality, education and community development.  
 
Magis Acute Care Clinic 
•  Volunteer with this non-profit organization that serves patients who are homeless and uninsured in Omaha. 
•  Participate in the primary care taking history and physical and proposing differentials and treatment plans 

2015 - 2019 

to the attending. 

 
Magis Psych Clinic 
•  Volunteer with this non-profit organization that serves patients who are homeless and uninsured in Omaha 
•  Participate in the psychiatric care taking history and physical and proposing differentials and treatment 

2015 - 2019 

plans to the attending 

 
Magis Sexual Health Clinic 
•  Volunteer with this non-profit organization that serves patients who are homeless and uninsured in Omaha 
•  Participate in the primary care and sexual health care taking history and physical and proposing 

2015 - 2019 

differentials and treatment plans to the attending 

 
Partner’s Against Cancer 
•  Served as an advocate and companion for cancer patients. 
•  Accompanied cancer patients to their medical appointments and treatments. 

  
      Body Basics 

Dakota 

•  Student-run CUSOM organization that offers free science based program to Omaha schools 
•  Directed stations, teaching about sheep hearts, sheep brains, cow eyes and human bones 
 
Project CURA: Pine Ridge 
•  Student-run CUSOM organization that sends medical students to Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South 

Spring 2016 

•  Spent one week in Pine Ridge working with students in schools to educate them about the importance of 

health and provided science based learning.  

St. Croix Hospice Care 
•  Provided weekly companion care to individuals receiving hospice care. 
•  Went for walks, played games, and talked about past life experiences. 
•  Strived to make end of life care a more pleasurable experience. 

Wesley Acres Retirement Community 
•  Organized weekly game evening with a floor of residents. 
•  Encouraged activity and socialization of individuals in the retirement community.  
•  Assisted staff members in improving the lives of residents. 

2014 – 2015 

2010 – 2014 

We Can Ride 
•  Worked with individuals with cognitive and physical disabilities to perform therapeutic exercises on 

2007 – 2011 

 

 

horseback.  

•  Created a fun, safe, and stimulating environment for clients.  
•  Allowed clients to challenge themselves physically and mentally through a range of activities.  

 
Methodist Hospital Information Desk Greeter 
•  Greeted patients and visitors when entering the hospital. 
•  Offered a reassuring and friendly interaction.  
•  Helped visitors and patients navigate a large hospital by identifying necessary resources.   

 

2007 – 2010 

 

EDUCATION-NON DEGREE GRANTING 

ALSO 

ALS 

BLS 

Nexplanon 

NRP 

Bayer IUD 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS 

American Medical Woman’s Association 
 
Phi Rho Sigma Medical Fraternity 
 
American Medical Association  

American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists  

American Academy of Family Physicians  

HOBBIES AND INTERESTS 

Running, Baking, Traveling, Downhill Skiing, Doing Puzzles, Hiking, Exploring 

June 10, 2019 

June 18, 2019 

June 18, 2019 

June 26, 2019 

April 2, 2019 

June 17, 2019 

2015 – Present 

2015 – Present 

2016 –Present 

2017 - Present 

2018 – Present 

