 
 
 

     
   

 
 

Education 

Experience 

Jan 2016 – 
Present 

  

Lau Peiwen Erwina 
   +65 90083183 
Erwina_lau@hotmail.com 
  Date of Birth:                                                                       29th March 1987 
   Residency Status:                                                            Singapore Citizen 
   Language Proficiency (Spoken and Written):             English, Mandarin 
   CPA Australia 
 Completed the following professional modules: 
  Ethics and governance 
  Audit and assurance 
  Contemporary Business Issues 
 
Strategic Management Accounting 
 
Financial Reporting 
 Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology  (RMIT) 
   Overall GPA 3.082 / 4 Bachelor of Business (Accountancy) with distinction 
  Obtained high distinctions for Introductory Accounting, Macroeconomics 1, Financial Accounting and Business 
        Statistics 1 
  Obtained distinctions for Marketing Principles, Cost Management and Applications, Prices and Markets, 
Singapore Company Law, Corporate Accounting, Accounting Theory, Small Business and the Accountant, Ethical 
Issues in Accountancy and Introduction to Organizational Behaviour 
  Ngee Ann Polytechnic 
 Diploma in Electronic and Computer Engineering (Telecommunication), 2008 
  Overall GPA 3.48 / 4 
  Class representative from 2006-2007 
  Group leader for Final Year Project “Design of PCB Embedded Passive Devices”. 
 

Selected to provide Ansoft software training for employee of company for this joint industrial collaboration project.

Xander Investment Management Pte. Ltd. 
Finance and Compliance Executive 
   Review and update Company’s internal polices (i.e. compliance manual, business continuity program 
manual, risk management framework manual) to ensure that polices are in-line with the current MAS 
regulations and guidelines. 
  Perform compliance monitoring and liaise with Company’s management and IT personnel to execute 
FY 2016 business continuity program. 
 
Perform KYC/AML checks for new investors. 
  Other compliance matters (i.e. update of representatives directorships and shareholdings and MAS Surveys) 
 
Perform quarterly financial accounts and year end statutory financial reporting.  
 
Perform operational matters (i.e. preparing of board resolutions, setting up of fund entity and opening of bank 
accounts)  
 
Perform payroll related matters 
  Liaise with internal and external auditors

Oct 2013 – 
Nov 2015 

Ernst & Young LLP 
Financial Services 
Senior 2 
  Understanding of clients' businesses - processes, internal controls and segregation of duties 
  Reconciling and analyzing of financial data and reports provided by client to ensure accuracy and compliance 
     with uniform accounting classifications 
  Providing management with suggestions and input on how to improve control and audit mechanisms through 
        insightful analysis and investigation 
  Reviewing of client’s preparation of financial statements and ensuring proper disclosure for the notes of the 
       financial statement 
  Ensure successful timely completion of assigned audit engagement 
 
  Review work prepared by junior auditors, ensuring quality in compliance with professional standards 
  Communicate with clients on the audit timeline 
  Manage a portfolio of 21 audit engagements

Supervises and providing guidance to junior auditor 

Sept 2011 - 
Oct 2013 

RSM Chio Lim LLP 
General Audit Associate 2 
  Understanding of clients' businesses - processes, internal controls and segregation of duties 
  Reconciling and analyzing of financial data and reports provided by client to ensure accuracy and compliance 
  Providing management with suggestions and input on how to improve control and audit mechanisms through 
  Ensure successful timely completion of assigned audit engagement 
 

with uniform accounting classifications 
insightful analysis and investigation 
Preparation of financial statements and preparation of charts and tables to include in reports

  Assisted the franchisee in research, marketing, finance, human resources and overall operations of the store. 
  Co-manage the overall start-up of the franchise which generated the highest sales among other Shihlin outlets 

Jun 2009 -             Shihlin  Franchise at Nex Serangoon 
2011                      Assistant Manager 
 

in their first month of operation. 

   March -                 BHP Billiton 

May 2008             Temporary HR Administrator 

 
 
 

Performed timely update of human resource database. 
Facilitated visa applications for expatriates and employees travelling. 
Involved in the planning of orientation activities for new employees. 

    

   

 

 
 
 

  Skills and Interests 
 
 
  Enjoy playing the piano (obtained Grade 8 certificate) 
  Enjoy jogging, swimming, trekking and travelling 

Fluent in Mandarin and English 
Proficient in  Microsoft Office Power Point, Microsoft Office Excel, Microsoft Office Words and GAMx 

