ROHIT KHANDELWAL 

19 Shelford Road, #01-25, Singapore, 288408 

 

rohitkhandelwal@live.in 

+65 8322 6870 

    NEW DELHI, INDIA   

 
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF INDIA 
 

Bachelor of Commerce (Honors) with first division. 
Specialisation in Financial Management, Taxation, Accountancy, Audit and Corporate Law. 

    NEW DELHI, INDIA  
Qualified  chartered  accountant  with  specialization  in  Financial  &  Treasury  Management,  Accountancy, 
Taxation, Valuation, Structuring, Risk Management and Compliance.  
Cleared all levels in first attempt and secured all India 47th rank in PEE-II (Level II) 
Completed certificate course on valuation 

 
 
 
SRI RAM COLLEGE OF COMMERCE, UNIVERSITY OF DELHI 
 
 
 
 
THE XANDER GROUP 
XANDER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PTE. LTD. 
XANDER ADVISORS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED 
Vice President 
11  years’  experience  spanning  management  of  PE  Funds  and  Family  Offices,  financial  control,  treasury 
management,  asset  financing  &  leverage,  currency  hedging,  transaction  /  fund  structuring,  fund  operations  & 
administration, risk management and compliance, taxation and audit. 
 

Financial Control: Responsible for  all  aspects of financial control (such as treasury management, financial 
accounting, reporting, audits, taxation, risk management and regulatory compliance) for 30+ licensed and other 
entities operating across multiple jurisdictions such as Singapore, Mauritius, United States, United Kingdom, 
Cayman Islands and India. Set-up compliance and finance functions in Singapore HQ. 
Treasury Management: Responsible for evaluating and managing investments in capital markets comprising 
of equities, fixed income securities, derivatives, structured products, alternative investments and commodities 
for Group’s Family Office. Overseeing asset portfolio of over US$ 250 million. 
Currency  Hedging:  Responsible  for  evaluating  and  executing  hedging  strategies  for  PE  funds  and  portfolio 
investments such as forward, options, call / put spreads, PAYG structures.  
Asset  Financing  &  Leverage:  Responsible  for  evaluating  and  executing  leverage  and  asset  monetization 
opportunities for PE funds and Family Office investments:  
  Closed subscription line facilities of over US$ 125 million resulting in reduction of J-curve and enhancement 

      SINGAPORE 
     NEW DELHI, INDIA 

  

of Fund IRR.  

  Secured credit lines / asset financing of over US$ 30 million for Family Office Investments 
Fund  Structuring  and  Closing:  Worked  on  all  aspects  of  structuring,  investor  due-diligence  and  closing  of 
various PE Funds across multiple jurisdictions including Singapore, India, Mauritius and Cayman Islands: 
  Opportunity Fund IV (vintage – 2011) comprising investor commitments of approx. US$ 225 million. 
  Office Club Fund (vintage - 2014) comprising investor commitments of approx. US$ 200 million. 
Firm  Level  Initiatives:  Responsible  for  firm  level  initiatives  such  as  securing  key  regulatory  approvals  (i.e. 
‘Capital  Market  Services  License’;  ‘Exempt  Fund  Manager’)  for  conduct  of  fund  management  business  in 
Singapore; securing key tax incentives for Fund Manager and PE Funds (i.e. ‘Financial Sector Incentive for Fund 
Managers’; ‘Enhanced Tier Exemption’) and other approvals across multiple jurisdictions for the Firm. 
Fund  Operations & Administration: Supervising  Fund Operations team  in preparation of  quarterly investor 
reports, investor queries, portfolio valuations, transaction structuring, investor operational due diligences, capital 
calls & distributions, IRR and carry computations etc.   
Leadership  &  management:  Reporting  directly  to  Managing  Partner  and  CEO.  Extensive  experience  in 
working with senior leadership teams. Participating in Senior Management & Investment Committee meetings. 
Ensuring firm wide implementation of approved policies and decisions. Managing team of 4 professionals. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
S.R.BATLIBOI (sole member of ERNST & YOUNG LLP in India) 
Executive – Assurance & Advisory Business Services 
Worked on and led assurance and advisory assignments comprising of statutory audits, tax audits, group reporting of 
listed global infrastructure firms and Initial Public Offering of leading real estate developers in Northern India. 
Select work experience: 


Emaar MGF India: Review of financial and tax information forming part of the Initial Public Offering (‘IPO’) 
documents  and  assisting  in  the  certification  of  the  IPO  documents;  statutory  audits  –  standalone  and 
consolidated; real estate project reviews etc. 

    NEW  DELHI,  INDIA    

  ALSTOM Group India (NSE: APIL): Statutory audits – standalone and consolidated; power and infrastructure 

project reviews; quarterly reviews under SEBI provisions. 

Indian  Citizen.  Married.  Fluent  in  English  and  Hindi.  Enjoy  traveling,  music,  movies  and  watching  /  playing 
cricket, volleyball and football. 

 

 
Education
2008 
 
 
 
 
2005 
 
 
 
Work 
Experience 
2011-Present 
2009-2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2005-2009 

 
Personal 

