Yuri Balasanov, Ph. D. 

2238 Asbury Ave., Evanston, Illinois 60201 

(847) 644-9346  

ybalasan@uchicago.edu; yuri.balasanov@earthlink.net

Ph.D., Probability Theory and Mathematical Statistics, Moscow State University, Russia. 

Education 
1982 
1977  B.Sc., MS., Applied Mathematics, Moscow State University, Russia. 
 
Qualifications summary 
Leader of multi-strategy businesses. 1 year experience in building and running multi-strategy products. 
Quantitative trader.  5 years of quantitative trading strategies development and trading. 
Researcher. 28 years of creative applied mathematical and statistical research. 16 years in Financial Industry. 
Professional research manager and team leader. 25 years of effective management of research projects, teams 
and consulting companies. 
Experienced university professor. 25 years of teaching experience (Moscow St. Univ., Univ. of Chicago). 
 
Experience 
1991 – Present  Research Software International, Inc., Albany, New York. 

Founder and President (10 employees). Manage quantitative projects for financial industry. 
Founded and manage consulting team with an outstanding record of successfully 

2001 – 2005 

1993 – 2001 

completed  

research projects for leading companies of the industry. 
1997 – Present  The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. 
 
 
May 2006 
– May 2007 

Teach Fixed Income course within Program on Financial Mathematics. 
Lotsoff Capital Management, Chicago, Illinois. 
Chief Investment Officer, Director of Fixed Income, Senior portfolio Manager.  Led 
development of the multi-strategy mutual fund and multi-strategy hedge fund.  
Ritchie Capital Management, Chicago, Illinois. 
Director of Quantitative Research, Quantitative Trader. Led development of analytical 
models (3) and trading strategies (2) of the company. Ran quantitative trading desk, traded 
some of the trading strategies (2) based on our models. 
Bank of America, Chicago, Illinois. 
Senior Financial Engineer, Principal. Managed research group. Initiated projects, did 
market research, derivation and calibration of major proprietary models for Global 
Derivative Products Group at Bank of America (4).  
Developed quantitative strategies and trading ideas (5) for Global Interest Rates. 
Soviet-American Joint Venture DIALOGUE, Moscow, Russia. 
Leading Researcher, Project Manager. Statistical software development and marketing. 

Professor, Senior Researcher. Taught Probability Theory, Mathematical and Applied 
Statistics, Financial Mathematics. Managed applied research projects 

1987 – 1991, 
 
1982 – 1993  Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia. 

 

 
Personal skills 
Excerpts from my professional reviews of the last 10 years (5) 
 
Publications and References  
Available upon request.  
 

(1)  Responsibilities at Lotsoff Capital Management: Led the process of building the business 
platform (analytics, risk management system, asset allocation model, performance reporting), 
selecting strategies that fit together, adding new types of trades. 
 
(2) Trading ideas and strategies developed and traded at Ritchie Capital Management: 
Eurodollar futures and options, interest rates swaps and swaptions (USD and EUR curves), gold 
and crude oil vs. FX rates, FX volatilities, crude oil and natural gas futures, long-short portfolio of 
BKX index (banking industry index), SP index volatility.   
 
(3) Businesses supported by the QR group at Ritchie Capital Management: 
Firm wide Risk Management,  Fixed Income, Global Relative Value, Energy, Credit Derivatives, 
Commodities Derivatives Trading, Convertible Bonds, Long Short. All developed models 
implemented by the group in C++ library of analytics with interfaces to the company systems and 
Excel spreadsheets. 
 
(4) Major proprietary models for Global Derivative Products Group (Bank of America):  
Multifactor interest rates model, volatility skew model, credit derivatives model,   model for 
trading long vanilla FX options, model for proactive risk management of interest rates instruments.    
 
(5) Quantitative strategies and trading ideas for the Global Interest Rates group (Bank of America):  
Bond futures, bond bases, bond futures options, Eurodollar futures and options. 
 
(6) Excerpts from my professional reviews of the last 10 years: outstanding creative mind and great 
person to work with; excellent manager of research; innovative thinker, does not confine thinking 
to what has been tried in the mainstream; always a fresh perspective; very good in generating new 
projects and fresh, unorthodox ideas; always sees BIG picture; can effectively explain and sell his 
ideas to different people; always listens to others; great instinct for anticipating the “new thing” in 
financial engineering; dependable team player; strong leader; reliable when work under pressure; 
great teacher.  
Meyer-Briggs type indicator ENTJ (Extraverted Thinking with Intuition) which in general 
means: logical, organized, structured, objective and decisive about what they view as conceptually 
valid; they enjoy working with others, especially when they can take charge and add a strategic 
plan; develop well-thought-out plans, provide structure to the organization, design strategies that 
work toward broad goals, take charge quickly and do what it takes, deal directly with problems 
caused by confusion and inefficiency; initiate an action oriented, energetic approach, manage 
directly and are tough when necessary, enjoy complex problems and are resourceful in managing 
them, run as much of the organization as possible. Preferred work environments: contain results-
oriented, independent, and competent people focused on solving complex problems, are goal-
oriented, have efficient systems and people, offer structure and focus on use of a master plan. 
Preferred learning style: cutting edge and theoretically based, delivered by experts, open to 
challenges and questions.    
 
 

 

 

